There was a black cloud, and hard rain. The puddles were yellow and green, like someone had poured paint into them. They said it was dust from the flowers. Grandma made us stay in the cellar. She got down on her knees and prayed. And she taught us, too. "Pray! It's the end of the world. It's God's punishment for our sins." My brother was eight and I was six. We started remembering our sins. He broke the glass can with the raspberry jam, and I didn't tell my mom that I'd got my new dress caught on a fence and it ripped. I hid it in the closet.
Soldiers came for us in cars. I thought the war had started. They were saying these things: "deactivation," "isotopes." One soldier was chasing after a cat. The dosimeter was working on the cat like an automatic: click, click. A boy and a girl were chasing the cat, too. The boy was all right, but the girl kept crying, "I won't give him up!" She was yelling: "Run away, run little girl!" But the soldier had a big plastic bag.

I heard - the adults were talking - Grandma was crying - since the year I was born [1986], there haven't been any boys or girls born in our village. I'm the only one. The doctors said I couldn't be born. But my mom ran away from the hospital and hid at Grandma's. So I was born at Grandma's. I heard them talking about it.
I don't have a brother or sister. I want one.
Tell me, lady, how could it be that I wouldn't be born? Where would I be? High in the sky? On another planet?
The sparrows disappeared from our town in the first year after the accident. They were lying around everywhere - in the yards, on the asphalt. They'd be raked up and taken away in the containers with the leaves. They didn't let people burn the leaves that year, because they were radioactive, so they buried the leaves.
The sparrows came back two years later. We were so happy, we were calling to each other: "I saw a sparrow yesterday! They're back."
The May bugs also disappeared, and they haven't come back. Maybe they'll come back in a hundred years or a thousand. That's what our teacher says. I won't see them.
September first, the first day of school, and there wasn't a single flower. The flowers were radioactive. Before the beginning of the year, the people working weren't masons, like before, but soldiers. They mowed the flowers, took off the earth and took it away somewhere in cars with trailers.
In a year they evacuated all of us and buried the village. My father's a cab driver, he drove there and told us about it. First they'd tear a big pit in the ground, five meters deep. Then the firemen would come up and use their hoses to wash the house from its roof to its foundation, so that no radioactive dust gets kicked up. They wash the windows, the roof, the door, all of it. Then a crane drags the house from its spot and puts it down into the pit. There's dolls and books and cans all scattered around. The excavator picks them up. Then it covers everything with sand and clay, leveling it. And then instead of a village, you have an empty field. They sowed our land with corn. Our house is lying there, and our school and our village council office. My plants are there and two albums of stamps, I was hoping to bring them with me. Also I had a bike.
I'm twelve years old and I'm an invalid. The mailman brings two pension checks to our house - for me and my granddad. When the girls in my class found out that I had cancer of the blood, they were afraid to sit next to me. They didn't want to touch me.
The doctors said that I got sick because my father worked at Chernobyl. And after that I was born. I love my father.
They came for my father at night. I didn't hear how he got packed, I was asleep. In the morning I saw my mother was crying. She said, "Papa's in Chernobyl now.
We waited for him like he was at the war.
He came back and started going to the factory again. He didn't tell us anything. At school I bragged to everyone that my father just came back from Chernobyl, that he was a liquidator, and the liquidators were the ones who helped clean up after the accident. They were heroes. All the boys were jealous.
A year later he got sick.
We walked around in the hospital courtyard - this was after his second operation - and that was the first time he told me about Chernobyl.

They worked pretty close to the reactor. It was quiet and peaceful and pretty, he said. And as they're working, things are happening. The gardens are blooming. For who? The people have left the villages. They "cleaned" the things that needed to be left behind. They took off the topsoil that had been contaminated by cesium and strontium, and they washed the roofs. The next day everything would be "clicking" on the dosimeters again.
"In parting they shook our hands and gave us certificates of gratitude for our self-sacrifice." He talked and talked. The last time he came back from the hospital, he said: "If I stay alive, no more physics or chemistry for me. I'll leave the factory. I'll become a shepherd." My mom and I are alone now. I won't go to the technical institute, even though she wants me to. That's where my dad went.
I used to write poems. I was in love with a girl. In fifth grade. In seventh grade I found out about death
I read in Garcia Lorca: "the cry's black root." I began to learn how to fly. I don't like playing that game, but what can you do?
I had a friend, Andrei. They did two operations on him and then sent him home. Six months later he was supposed to get a third operation. He hanged himself from his belt, in an empty classroom, when everyone else had gone to gym glass. The doctors had said he wasn't allowed to run or jump.
Yulia, Katya, Vadim, Oksana, Oleg, and now Andrei. "We'll die, and then we'll become science," Andrei used to say. "We'll die and everyone will forget us," Katya said. "When I die, don't bury me at the cemetery, I'm afraid of the cemetery, there are only dead people and crows there," said Oksana. "Bury me in the field." Yulia used to just cry. The whole sky is alive for me now when I look at it, because they're all there.

Results for each input file
File Sample1.txt Result
1
have missed my brain wants to the arena food containers of water but then the ground a gong releases us step off but then the cornucopia a tent pack up a few steps from almost up most of this girl even

ground that i had he would pass up a tent pack at me to decide what i sling the girl will be almost up most of plastic and i am fast i make for the very weapon since that if i

general fear i have lost by the tributes across from the direction my feet lies a curved tail the minute must be my shoulders now i know the gong rings out of ground that might be shaking his head the time

we grapple for it i have to stand on our school although a downpour but toward the packs and fight for me i have reached the pack that will have been feeling condenses into the warm sticky spray then i can

first but the question is when i can reach it is the time we are other tributes across from the cornucopia and a cliff to go for it first but toward the career tributes who survive the arena food containers of
2
2 ten yards to go in the pack up the pile i have reached the minute must be almost any of hard-packed dirt behind the girls in the bounty waiting there resting on my brain wants to stand leaving with the

know i make for instance only target i can between yourselves and land mines blow your legs off but toward me to my eyes and then the mouth of these life-sustaining spoils something catches my shoulders now i am puzzling over

the surrounding forests but this is at me that whole pile toward the surrounding forests but it first but then i had he is a silver sheath of some use in the career tributes have lost by the very weapon since

medicine garments fire starters strewn around the blade lodges in the minute must be drawn back already strung just waiting there before all the bow already other supplies their own powerful fists still i have reached the knife in distance as

open stretch of a source of blanket rolls is when suddenly i am built for it is how long we are on a half-dozen knives i can between yourselves and one bow already other tributes have lost by the pile toward

File Sample2.txt Result
1
screamingly mad at all he gave back to begin the boy the stains on the hall stopped at him as unwinnable valiant as an aversion to be afraid to smoke quickly discovered that made sure that are deadly in the blades

pass through walls the hous then you're right baron and the flea at first had an untidy blond beard sticking out here upstairs aragon exchanged angry glances richey got serious they might daylight comes or perhaps he stumped down the monster

obviously harmless flickering shado struggling to the time and buried his squeaky voice at trudys back down he had been taught at him i mean i recall ever i recall ever meeting before they passed clean through him until incredibly richey

out darkness and chairs poorly arranged a blade together went plunging back that was really dangerous enough for its throat the fat man cuirass he is regrettable that young blade and you take everything else off the old lady sniffed well

her elbow said when their stints no water and the dead they headed for the middle of course she looked inquiringly at least that day for odd sensations did it the way in a fool of the hall that slinky white
2
or thereabouts nolly gave the blades had begun there they came until he was another of wherever who were already the grand duke whosit of its neck was an exciting evening it was a firm hold of its halberd on that

the smoky figure bernard had emerged from the stair and grand duke whosit of the marble staircase and water death roll four elements he leaped back parrying his great bulk and aragon joined in his left hand and to work on

load on the signal so the other night honors all the fallen table it is dead they piled into nolly gave the yeomen did it was clear view around the rug and crept underneath leave it mother mother celandine pursued thin

her he swung its boot he said firmly that mean trudy resisted the apparition himself then they dangerous in shiny breastplate were flying ash gradually slowing and proclaimed at the blades quite absurdly but something wrong sister gertrude was playing statue

hour or thereabouts nolly gave back obviously harmless it reached him until incredibly richey fell on duty who were made to the baron were turning his grin bernard doubled the other two lights and it nobody doubled the procession formed up
File Sample3.txt
1
a third operation - grandma was quiet and prayed and then instead of school i don't like playing that i got down into the first day of the hospital and now when the dosimeters again in an invalid the girl in

into the next to touch me at grandma so i had gone to that he hanged himself from the whole sky on the villages they buried the war had said i heard them september first they'd tear a cat like someone

how to each other i bragged to each other i read in cars with me also i don't have left the firemen would come back the boy and strontium and hid it god punishment for me now andrei used to fly

and buried the mailman brings two pension checks to everyone will forget us too the villages they cleaned the blood they shook our land with sand and green like before the cellar she taught us stay alive no radioactive so i

but what our town in garcia lorca the people and i be high in the flowers took off the reactor it in the people working on the first day of stamps i had cancer of us katya said papa in the
2
me at grandma made us anything at school and puts it down into the girl kept crying she got sick we waited for me in cars with me i'll leave the leaves that i was chasing after the leaves they buried

in the dosimeter was supposed to bring them up then sent him up and crows there said when i won't give him home six months later he was working things are there and i was all there said i had gone

what can with sand and that was yelling run or jump yulia katya said papa in the topsoil that had started they did two albums of the mailman brings two operations on him and started they cleaned the accident they said

to touch me in a single flower the soldier was born i die and then instead of a brother was yelling run or girls born [1986] there haven't been any boys were radioactive dust gets kicked up and i began to

in the morning i was six months later he was dust from the cat too pray it then we'll die don't bury me to touch me in the people working weren't masons like someone had said it covers everything with sand.
